# target_practice

## by *kaipan*

### Tracking Down The User

We are given what presumably is a username **anonhunter26** and we are tasked with finding their real name using OSINT tools. We are given a website with tools to start the challenge with called [OSINT Framework](https://osintframework.com/). We suspected that the alias is some sort of username, and the OSINT Framework website has tools for checking which sites have that username taken and finding specific accounts with a given username. We can go through all of the username search engines and use **anonhunter26** as the username to see what websites have that username unavailable, as that means that account must already exist on that website and belong to the person we are trying to find the real name of, so we can investigate those websites and try to find the account. Some of the tools find the account for you, rather than merely checking if that username is available, so these ones are the most straightforward ones. The best tool for finding accounts belonging to a specified username hands down from the ones I've tried on the OSINT Framework is *WhatsMyName*. It tells you what websites have accounts with that user name instead of merely checking every website to see whether or not it is available (which reduces the amount of checking work you have to do to find the account you are after), and it also actually correctly found the account as well. We find an account matching the username **anonhunter26** on Twitter using *WhatsMyName*, so we proceed to investigate further.

We go on Twitter to find the account of **[anonhunter26](https://twitter.com/anonhunter26)** and we can see that he mentions one of his friends that is also hiding in total anonymity but otherwise doesn't give much information out about himself besides his Twitter biography stating that he is a senior software developer (this will become important later). It is highly likely that **anonhunter26**'s friend is also connected to **anonhunter26** on other social networks, so if we can find who **anonhunter26**'s friend really is, then chances are we can look at his friend's friends list to find **anonhunter26** himself. We visit his friend's Twitter account to find his username: **hatebav2ropc**. We then search for his friend's username on the username search engines to see if we can find any other sites that he uses that could provide us with more information. Still using *WhatsMyName* we find out that **hatebav2ropc** has a GitHub account.

GitHub has a way of letting you leak the email of an account using GitHub's API or even through a 'commits .patch' hack. For the API hack, we use this link https://api.github.com/users/xxxxxxx/events/public and replace the 'xxxxxxx' with the username of the target, **hatebav2ropc**. The final link is https://api.github.com/users/hatebav2ropc/events/public. It returns API data in the form of JSON, and you just need to find the email key to get the email address, which is **anonymousfreak32@gmail.com**. This won't work if the account owner chooses to not store his or her email on their public repositories though. If there are various contributors on the repository then there will be multiple emails, but you can just look up the user name to find the associated email. The other method to find an email address is the '.patch hack' which only works as long as the repository you use isn't forked and unmodified (user made no commits on this forked repo). All you need to do is go to the commit message/commit page for a repo, then you add '.patch' to the end of the URL. For example, https://github.com/hatebav2ropc/useful-osint-links/commit/b8e908c74c182c73d840192cd89d3f27b5177641.patch. If we look at the 'From' field within the angled brackets you can get the email anonymousfreak32@gmail.com. On the same repo that you accessed the commit pages from, it has useful links for OSINT, one of them being a *GHunt*. This tool lets you investigate Google accounts, and our email is a Gmail account, which is Google's email system, allowing us to get information on the social networks that the email was used to register for and/or services that the target used his Google account on (YouTube, Photos, Maps, etc.) along with the full name of the person with the account.

Our handsome young man has the name of **Gabriel Cortney**, and I took the liberty of looking up this name on several social networks. This guy apparently has a second account on Twitter under his real name (why he has two accounts on the same platform where he tries to stay anonymous on one and has real information on the other one escapes my mind but I digress). His biography mentions that he works for a company called *opticalsocial*. We use Google Search's exact search feature (putting quotes "" around your search term) to search for opticalsocial. The first result we get a GitHub Gist of someone who works at opticalsocial called Oswald Denman. Alright, now remember how I said earlier that **anonhunter26**'s biography states that he is a Senior Software Developer? Well would you look at that, so is Oswald Denman. Coincidence? We try Oswald Denman as the flag (in flag format of course, so osu{oswald_denman}) and we get it right!

### Flag

`osu{oswald_denman}`
